And I advice
everyone to whom my statement reaches
I advice them to take care of the book of Allah
because the book of Allah contains guidance and light
and it's the root of all goodness
Indeed, this Qur'an guides to that which is most suitable (17:09)
Say, "It is, for those who believe, a guidance and cure." (41:44)
Exalted is He, said,
And We have sent down to you the Book as clarification for all things
and as guidance and mercy and good tidings for the Muslims. (16:89)
So it is an obligation upon the people of knowledge
and the students of knowledge
and those who recite the book of Allah either from memory or reading
to give great concern to this tremendous book
and devote his entire heart to it
learning it, contemplating upon it, and understanding it
in the appropriate times
in his night and day times and in his free time
so he would benefit from the speech of his Lord
and so that he knows his Lord
and so that he acts upon it
Exalted is He, said, [This is] a blessed Book
which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad],
that they might reflect upon its verses
and that those of understanding would be reminded. (38:29)
Exalted is He, also said,
Then do they not reflect upon the Qur'an,
or are there locks upon [their] hearts? (47:24)
So it is upon the Muslims
in general and the scholars specifically
and the students of knowledge
to give great concern to the glorious Qur'an
complete and special care,
contemplating, and understanding
and increasing in its recitation
and searching for benefits,
then acting upon it.
And if you have an issue
return it to a scholar
or a colleague
and to search with him concerning the issue
and go back to the well-known books of Tafseer
for in them is a lot of good
Like Ibn Jarir, Al Baghawi, Ibn Kathir, and others
go back to them concerning his issue
and benefit from
the issue
and go back to the evidences
from the ahadith if the affair of the verse isn't clear
and not be negligent
and
the tools he needs is available
from the books of Al Gharib, books of Al Lughah
books of hadith, Usool al fiqh
Mustalah Al Hadith, and other than that that the student of knowledge will need.
And he who recites the Qur'an and is not a scholar
Allah will make it easy for him if he contemplates and understands it
and in that as well,
softening of his heart and increase in his eman
and reminding of the Hereafter and the rights of Allah
thus he increases in knowledge, guidance, and Taqwa
and he wouldn't be deprived of knowledge
that would benefit him or goodness that will reach him.
Then, there is the Sunnah of the Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him)
is the second revelation
and the second foundation, whoever denies/rejects it disbelieves
Whoever denies/rejects it and says there is no need for me in it
he is a misguided disbeliever, according to the consensus of the Muslims.
It's the second foundation
Allah revealed it to his prophet (peace and  blessings be upon him)
to explain the book of Allah
and guide to what's in it
and to explain it's rulings by following the Sunnah.
Exalted is He, said, And We revealed to you the message
that you may make clear to the people what was sent down to them (16:44)
Allah made His prophet (peace and blessings be upon him)  to explain to the people
and to clarify what hasn't been made clear to them from the book of Allah.
For the Sunnah clarifies the Qur'an,
to use as an evidence and to explain it.
And I advice my brothers
the people and students of  knowledge, to take care of the Sunnah
and to be diligent in it
and to go over its texts and chain of narrations
and to be diligent in memorizing what you are able to.
And I also advice,
Umdat Ul Hadith,
and Buloogh Al Maraam
that you memorize these two books
for they are quite beneficial,
especially for the student of knowledge.
These two books have great value.
And if he is able to memorize Muntaqa Al Akhbar,
then that will be goodness upon goodness and light upon light.
However, at least,
Umdat Ul Hadith by Sheikh AbdulGhani
and Buloogh Al Maraam by Ibn Hajar, these two books
are from the best and most beneficial books.
I advice my brothers to memorize them
and to take great care of them for they help
understanding the Book according to what came in the Sunnah.
Then,
I also advice
all my brothers,
among men and women,
from what was mentioned previously by giving great concern to the Book and the Sunnah.
I also advice,
to listen to the Qur'an radio station,
for
some people might not be able to read the Qu'ran
or maybe his recitation is not proper,
so he should listen
to the recitation of the Qur'an from the radio station for there's a lot of goodness
and benefit and religious talks
the student of knowledge would benefit from
as well as the Muslims in general from men and women.
So I would advice with the Qur'an radio station
and to busy oneself to listening to it
and to benefit from it
I advice as well,
with the radio program Nur Ala Darb.
The program Nur Ala Darb,
has a group of people of knowledge,
who are asked and they answer them. So I advice
to listen to this program and to benefit from it
and especially
the general Muslims
because the benefit from it is tremendous.
Verily, the believers
benefit from this program while they are
in their beds, or their gatherings,
or in their cars.
and this is from the blessings of Allah
and a bounty from Allah.
So it is upon them to busy themselves and take advantage of this.
And this is what I have to say. I don't want to make this longer.
I ask Allah to grant us success with beneficial knowledge and righteous actions.